# DATE

# DATETIME

# TIMESTAMP

# TIME

# YEAR

 The DATE type is used for values with a date part but no time part. MySQL retrieves and displays DATE values in 'YYYY-MM-DD' format. The supported range is '1000-01-01' to '9999-12-31'.

The DATETIME type is used for values that contain both date and time parts. MySQL retrieves and displays DATETIME values in 'YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss' format. The supported range is '1000-01-01 00:00:00' to '9999-12-31 23:59:59'.

The TIMESTAMP data type is used for values that contain both date and time parts. TIMESTAMP has a range of '1970-01-01 00:00:01' UTC to '2038-01-19 03:14:07' UTC. 

# DATATIME VS TIMESTAMP

The main difference is that DATETIME is constant while TIMESTAMP is affected by the `time_zone` setting.

So it only matters when you have — or may in the future have — synchronized clusters across time zones.

In simpler words: **If I have a database in Australia, and take a dump of that database to synchronize/populate a database in America,  then the TIMESTAMP would update to reflect the real time of the event in the new time zone, while DATETIME would still reflect the time of the  event in the au time zone**.

A great example of DATETIME being used where TIMESTAMP should have  been used is in Facebook, where their servers are never quite sure what  time stuff happened across time zones. Once I was having a conversation  in which the time said I was replying to messages before the message was actually sent. (This, of course, could also have been caused by bad  time zone translation in the messaging software if the times were being  posted rather than synchronized.)

