关于timeout，MySQL有下面的这些参数：

~~~
mysql> show variables like '%timeout%';
+-----------------------------+----------+
| Variable_name               | Value    |
+-----------------------------+----------+
| connect_timeout             | 10       |
| delayed_insert_timeout      | 300      |
| innodb_flush_log_at_timeout | 1        |
| innodb_lock_wait_timeout    | 50       |
| innodb_rollback_on_timeout  | OFF      |
| interactive_timeout         | 28800    |
| lock_wait_timeout           | 31536000 |
| net_read_timeout            | 30       |
| net_write_timeout           | 60       |
| rpl_stop_slave_timeout      | 31536000 |
| slave_net_timeout           | 3600     |
| wait_timeout                | 28800    |
+-----------------------------+----------+
~~~

# 一、connection_timeout

> The number of seconds that the mysqld server waits for a connect packet before responding with Bad handshake. The default value is 10 seconds.
>
> Increasing the connect_timeout value might help if clients frequently encounter errors of the form Lost connection to MySQL server at 'XXX', system error: errno.

经过TCP三次握手连接到MySQL服务器，MySQL服务器等待客户端发送连接包（用户名、密码等验证信息），若在connect_tiemout规定的时候内，未收到客户端的数据包，则断开连接。

# 二、wait_timeout

> The number of seconds the server waits for activity on a noniteractive connection before closing it.
>
> On thread stratup, the session wait_timeout value is initialized from the global wait_timeout value or from the global interactive_timeout value, depending on the type of client (as defined by the CLIENT_INTERACTIVE connect option to mysql_real_connect()). See also interactive_timeout.

wait_timeout：服务器关闭非交互连接之前等待活动的秒数。在线程启动时，根据全局wait_timeout值或全局interactive_timeout值初始化会话wait_timeout值，取决于客户端类型(由mysql_real_connect()的连接选项CLIENT_INTERACTIVE定义)，又见interactive_timeout。

通过调用mysql_real_connect()方法来连接mysql，方法签名如下：

~~~c
MYSQL *mysql_real_connect(MYSQL *mysql, const char *host, const char *user,
const char *passwd, const char *db, unsigned int port, const char *unix_socket,
unsigned long client_flag)
~~~

最后一个参数可以对客户端的类型进行指定。可以指定为CLIENT_INTERACTIVE来表示当前是交互式客户端连接。

# 三、interactive_timeout

> The number of seconds the server waits for activity on an interactive connection before closing it. An interactive client is defined as a client that uses the CLIENT_INTERACTIVE option to mysql_real_connection(). See also wait_timeout.

interactive_timeout：服务器关闭交互式连接前等待活动的秒数。交互式客户端定义为在mysql_real_connect()中使用CLIENT_INTERACTIVE选项的客户端。又见wait_timeout 。

# 四、innodb_lock_wait_timeout

> The length of time in seconds an InnoDB transaction waits for a row lock before giving up. The default value is 50 seconds. A transaction that tries to access a row that is locked by another InnoDB transaction waits at most this many seconds for write access to the row before issuing the following error:
>
> ~~~sql
> ERROR 1205 (HY000): Lock wait timeout exceeded; try restarting transaction
> ~~~
>
> When a lock wait timeout occurs, the current statement is rolled back (not the entire transaction). To have the entire transaction roll back, start the server with the --innodb-rollback-on-timeout option.
>
> You might decrease this value for highly interactive applications or OLTP systems, to display user feedback quickly or put the update into a queue for processing later. You might increase this value for long-running back-end operations, such as a transform step in a data warehouse that waits for other large insert or update operations to finish.
>
> innodb_lock_wait_timeout applies to InnoDB row locks only. A MySQL table lock does not happen inside InnoDB and this timeout does not apply to waits for table locks.
>
> The lock wait timeout value does not apply to deadlocks when innodb_deadlock_detect is enabled (the default) because InnoDB detects deadlocks immediately and rolls back one of the deadlocked transactions. When innodb_deadlock_detect is disabled, InnoDB relies on innodb_lock_wait_timeout for transaction rollback when a deadlock occurs.

针对InnoDB引擎，控制行锁的等待超时时间，默认为50秒。如果超时，则当前statement（语句）回滚。如果设置了innodb_rollback_on_timeout，则会回滚整个事务，否则，只回滚事务等待行锁的这个语句。

# 五、innodb_rollback_on_timeout

> InnoDB rolls back only the last statement on a transaction timeout by default. If --innodb-rollback-on-timeout is specified, a transaction tiemout causes InnoDB to abort and roll back the entire transacton.
>
> Note：If the start-transaction statement was a START TRANSACTION or BEGIN statement, rollback does not cancel that statement. Further SQL statements become part of the transaction until the occurrence of COMMIT, ROLLBACK, or some SQL statement that causes an implicit commit.

#  六、net_read_timeout

> The number of seconds to wait for more data from a connection before aborting the read. When the server is reading from the client, net_read_timeout is the timeout value controlling when to abort. when the server is writing to the client, net_write_timeout is the timeout value controlling when to abort.

# 七、net_write_timeout

> The number of seconds to wait for a block to the written to a connection before aborting the write.



# 八、总结

connect_timeout在握手认证阶段（authenticate）起作用，interactive_timeout 和wait_timeout在连接空闲阶段（sleep）起作用，而net_read_timeout和net_write_timeout则是在连接繁忙阶段（query）或者网络出现问题时起作用。















































